# Date

June 7, 2022

**Recording**: <https://youtu.be/9kfiO0C0T7o>

## Attendees

- Jason Hall
- Nisha Kumar
- Sajay Antony
- Tonis Tiigi
- Michael Brown
- Silvin Lubecki
- Chris Crone
- Tianon
- Lachlan Evenson
- Josh Dolitsky
- Brandon Mitchell

## Notetaker

- Nisha 🥇
- Brandon 🥈

Agenda

- Enumerate concerns and thoughts on [Proposal F](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/blob/main/docs/proposals/PROPOSAL_F.md) (Josh)
  - Document them in issue [#53](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/issues/53)

Notes

- Silvin: Proposal F
  - Add annotations to describe references
  - Add "well known" annotations for "small" data
  - Append data to original image by uploading a new OCI index manifest adding a "digest tag".
    - Jason: we want to get rid of the digest tag. But is this the best we can come up with?
    - Silvin: this would be only one that would include everyone.
    - Tonis: latest tag will point to the latest image and latest index
    - Jason: when downstream consumer ingested alpine:latest then they will add a signature but this changes the digest of the original image. How can I find that this image is the same as the original image?
    - Tonis: in this case you would use the digest tag
    - Brandon: that would mean we would have to parse each of the index manifest.
    - Brandon: what if the arm64 image exists in other indices?
      - Chris: is that in scope?
      - Chris: you would push to a different repo with all the attached artifacts
      - Brandon: now we have to query a special index along with the top level index
      - Tonis: you can only know the list of signatures which means the image has been rebuilt the image that many times
  - Nested indices
    - Tonis: Pull manifest list, check each manifest if it has the right platform. Descriptors are then sorted. Things that don't have a platform are lower priority. If a index is found it will pull the manifest down and go through the same process.
    - Jason: this algorithm needs to be well defined. Platformless manifests need to be handled.
    - Michael: issues with tag race conditions and customers not wanting tags to be overwritten, the tag based approach may not work with existing registries. Tag needs to be immutable and built filters on tags. Scaling this for big registries require additional changes. How do we want to address this?
    - Chris: should have hard limits on index size
  - Josh: thoughts around the reference type field? There is a mediaType which we can rely on.
    - Silvin: not sure if defining mediaTypes was in scope. Maybe use config?
  - Josh: is the primary goal of adding "small data" to support clients?
    - Silvin: it's to reduce roundtripping of manifests - just pull one manifest and get the signature
  - Tonis: unknown platform - using a keyword "unknown"
    - Brandon: feels like another hack
  - Sajay: ordering seems to be important
    - Brandon: defined in OCI today, but not tested enough
  - Nisha: Do nested indexes need to be covered in other proposals too?
    - Jason: we should do this in general from OCI outside of the working group
  - Josh: Scalability if vulnerability scan is added each day to an image
    - Jason: May result in lots of entries in one list, or a deeply nested index if tags cannot be mutated.
  - Brandon: some runtimes limit length of individual annotations to 4KB, not limited by OCI yet, but maybe should be
  - Nisha: is this creating more tags than other proposals?
    - Want to avoid running tag list API
    - This solution doesn't have unique hash, so tags can be pulled directly
  - Brandon: Race conditions when updating existing image
    - Jason: push OCI to support ETags
    - How should clients respond if ETags are not supported by the registry?
    - How can clients detect ETag support on push?
    - Sajay: could all SBOMs be added to a single index?
