# Date

May 24, 2022

**Recording**: <https://youtu.be/m4rQBcDb3N4>

## Attendees

- Brandon Mitchell
- Nisha Kumar
- Tonis Tiigi
- Chris Crone
- Jason
- Sajay Antony
- Josh Dolitsky
- Tianon Gravi
- Matt Bendix
- Patrick Flynn
- Lachlan Evenson
- Ramkumar Chinchani
- Michael Brown
- _attendees list_

## Notetaker

- Nisha ðŸ¥‡
- Chris ðŸ¥ˆ

Agenda

- Demo regclient + distribution fork implementing proposal E (Brandon)
- Go through feedback on Proposal D, E and anything else
- Are OCI Layout changes needed? [Zot comment](https://github.com/project-zot/zot/compare/main...oci-playground:main#diff-dff2f68dc3ec0ac35cebe09e239b9dea414f84553a6efc4f24d787c46ecc35e6R678) (Brandon)
- Should query response be an OCI Index or new media type? [Justin's comment](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/pull/38#discussion_r864660341) (Brandon)
- [Field/API naming bike shedding (reference, refers, referrers)?](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/issues/41) (Brandon)
- [Proposal E upgrade scenarios](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/pull/49) (Josh)
  - If we have time, can try to validate some
  - See <https://github.com/oci-playground/prop-e-scenarios>
- _enter agenda before meeting_

Notes

- Demo
  - <https://github.com/oci-playground/regclient> & <https://github.com/oci-playground/distribution>
  - Nisha: How many changes did you have to make on top of distribution/distribution to make this happen?
    - Registry side: <https://github.com/distribution/distribution/compare/main...oci-playground:main>
    - regctl side wasn't too bad. Most of the work was on adding media type
    - The hard part is that content on the registry side will have to be reindexed
- Feedback on proposals
  - <https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/issues/48>
  - Anything requiring changes to structs and API will have impact on existing implementations
  - Changing how registries are restructured is problematic for large registries
  - Reg: using index - should digest change when digests are added?
    - Brandon: then it's hard to figure out what you are signing
    - Chris: you could sign a single digest (rather a digest + size) or any struct (list of digests)
    - Tonis: the docker use case is more aligned to proposal D i.e. no changes (?). Logically, an image should only have one signature.
    - Jason: conformance tests for nested indexes. How would you discover an image in a deeply nested index?
    - Brandon: if you are an image originator this makes sense, but downstream, workflows that depend on the digest being static will be affected.
    - Tonis: but there could be different components - if container bits change, workflows can detect it.
    - Jason: the same system can query for attestations and signatures.
    - Tonis: you can't understand what attestations were part of the container.
    - Nisha: this is addressed in one of the use cases, we want to know what was the latest thing appended to an image. We don't want a list of attestations, just the latest one. Proposal C was supposed to handle this. We left this because it had problems with GC.
    - Tonis: You don't always want all the signatures, sometimes you want a subset.
    - Nisha: specific use case is chain of custody. In this case, you want to maintain the chain of signatures for the artifact so that you can track where it came from.
    - Jason: this is a valid use case. Can be tracked by adding metadata to document handovers between parties.
    - Tonis: in the index model (Proposal D-ish), when you hand it over, you append the object with a new signature. The digest changes with the signature addition.
    - Brandon: Folks still need write access to your repositories. Suppose you want to link digests to a different repos.
  - Brandon suggests Tonis submit their proposals and how it addresses use cases
    - TBD things are OK in the proposal
  - Jason: what if there is a vuln against digest abc, we want to get that information linked. If we link in the index then we will have to parse the index. If the digest doesn't change it's easy to match.
    - Chris: you have to crawl the registry anyway.
    - Chris- Proposal C: it does look like an index but versioning breaks backwards compat.
    - Chris: propose start with Proposal D (no changes) but work on v3. Jason: fallback mechanism becomes "the mechanism". This is the nice things in Proposal E. Brandon: registries would want to upgrade.
    - Chris: registries will probably rate limit and give you a crappy experience rather than move to the new API.
  - Action Item: Chris and Tonis to submit a proposal
- Are OCI layout changes needed?
- Referres API?
  - Query or an OCI index?
- The name of the "reference" ðŸŒ¹
- Upgrading
  - PR <https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/pull/49>
- Docker community concerns
  - Chris: what are the data structures that get stored in registries. Should they be attached to the root object or detached.
  - Tonis: Not sure it fits the requirements for backwards compatible use cases. Performance is an issue. Needs to be snappy with UX.
  - Jason: This is feedback that we should consider performance.
  - Jason: docker pull shouldn't have to verify all the signatures by default. Various UX ways to handle this.
  - Brandon: Have done some thinking about this on the notary side about how to define policies for this.
  - Jason: We should support the distroless use case well even though it is a bit exceptional.
  - Brandon: backwards compatibility is a big concern, particularly for runtimes that don't know anything about references and need to run images.
