## Date

March 22, 2022

## Attendees

- Josh Dolitsky
- Brandon Mitchell
- Lachlan Evenson
- Marina Moore
- Sajay Antony
- Steve Lasker
- Derek McGowan
- Tianon Gravi
- Jesse Butler
- vbatts
- Ramkumar Chinchani

## Notetaker

- Brandon Mitchell ðŸ¥‡
- _backup notetaker_ ðŸ¥ˆ

Agenda

- Review [Proposal B](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/blob/main/docs/proposals/PROPOSAL_B.md) (Josh)
- Updates for [Proposal D](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/pull/23) (Brandon)
- [Image Layout Requirement](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/pull/26) (Brandon)
- Reference Looping follow up (Brandon)

Notes

- Proposal B
  - Adding a reference field to various media types called `reference` that is itself a `descriptor`
  - Reference on manifest makes sense as we're tracking links from artifacts (signatures) to artifacts (images). Putting reference on descriptor means blobs can reference blobs which makes lifecycle near impossible to manage as anything can reference anything. We haven't identified a scenario for blobs to reference blobs.
  - Adds a query API that returns an Index with an array of descriptors
  - Should we limit reference to only Image media types to avoid looping? (Brandon)
  - Is there a need for reference to be a list? (Brandon)
    - Steve suggested this as an individual property because it would result in more server side processing to manage lifecycle of artifacts.
  - Does the API risk collisions if a user requests `/v2/manifests/manifests/references` (Brandon)
    - Option may be for `/v2/<repo>/references/<ref>`
  - May want to reformat API response to support pagination (Brandon)
  - Media type will need to be manifest type (application/vnd.oci.image), and we'll need a separate artifactType property (Steve)
  - Any schema change to an Image manifest may have versioning questions for OCI (Steve)
    - Discussing extensibility clause of OCI that allows the change to the Image manifest for existing registries.
    - Suggestion that versioning may solve some of these issues.
    - There are different versions for both registries and media types (Sajay)
    - May be able to depend on the registry/distribution version to determine support for new APIs without querying API.
  - Ability to use this with backwards compatible solutions, push/pull digest tags when API doesn't work (Brandon)
  - Filtering also isn't included as part of this proposal, may be added into the final WG proposal (Sajay/Josh)
  - Index payload can be paginated, as each response is an index. How do you know which item in the response is a signature or sbom. And how do you know which signature is which if you have multiple signatures? (Steve)
- Verbosity question from Proposal A
  - Trying to answer questions that we'll have, debating inline vs documentation on each field
  - Trying to find balance between too much detail vs leaving questions for later
- Last call for changes to Proposal D and Image Layout Requirement
- Reference Looping: from the OCI, they've asked that we don't create loops
- Next week will discuss Proposal A
