## Date
April 19, 2022

## Attendees
- Brandon Mitchell
- Michael Brown
- Derek McGowan

## Notetaker
- Brandon Mitchell ðŸ¥‡

Agenda
- Discussion on Proposal E

Notes
- Should we be modifying the image-spec
  - Should the image-spec changes require a version bump
  - Concern that a version bump would break backwards compatibility with existing tooling
- Discussing pros and cons of filtering for registry operators
- Filters only remove entries from the response, so if the registry doesn't filter, it would return more data to the client that could be removed client side
- Concern of indexing all annotations on the registry
  - Could a registry pull up only a handful of annotations it cares about into an DB index
  - There will be some use cases where users want an unindexed annotation (e.g. looking for a specific signer's signatures), either don't filter on those and return everything to the client, or on the fly filtering
- Concern of how an S3 backed registry could perform the filtering and sorting
- Discussing whether a data field in the descriptor in the response makes more sense than the annotations
  - Annotations could be a majority of the manifest, or the manifest with a reference type could have a data field of its own
- Do we have enough to submit PR's to OCI for image-spec with a `reference` field and document the digest descriptors (distribution-spec?) now, giving us time to test an implementation of the references API in distribution/distribution before submitting that PR?
