# Date

Aug 2, 2022

## Attendees

- Brandon Mitchell
- Sajay Antony
- Yi Chen
- Lachlan Evenson
- Nisha Kumar
- Michael Brown
- _attendees list_

## Notetaker

- Brandon Mitchell 🥇
- _backup notetaker_ 🥈

Agenda

- Should ordering of the manifest/descriptor fields be considered? (Nisha)
- Should a list of artifact types be included? (Nisha)
- More examples of image/artifact manifests? (Nisha)
- Live code the upstream PRs (Josh)
- <https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/pull/74> [Michael]

Notes

- artifactType filtering:
  - Deciding if it makes sense to add this since clients will have filtering.
  - The negative is servers may need to cache multiple responses, one per media type
  - Michael will get a Vote opened up for this, to be closed by end of week.
- How to handle a "refers" pushed before referred manifest exists?
  - Group seems to like responding to API even before manifest exists
  - Jason will add a PR for this
  - Avoid using 404 for cases other than "API not available" to avoid interfering with the "tag fallback" - Brandon
  - Involve the OCI Maintainers in the decision of the API route since the manifest that is referenced in the URI path and technically the manifest may not exists.
- Is ordering important:
  - Within the descriptor itself (mediaType, digest, size)
  - How does this impact reproducibility?
  - This hasn't been handled by JSON previously.
  - Would be good to bring up reproducibility to image-spec maintainers, too big of a lift for this WG. (Sajay)
- Should a list of artifact types be included?
  - We've gotten rid of the short artifact types from the spec
  - The IANA media types are pushed off to IANA
- Adding more examples?
  - Pushing to have a more generic example instead of different example per type for SBOM/Sig/etc.
- Live Coding PRs
  - Where should the tag schema fall back be defined?
    - Group is leaning towards distribution-spec
  - Started a PR for defining the push process with the tag schema in [oci-playground/distribution-spec](https://github.com/oci-playground/distribution-spec/pull/5/files)
  