# Date

Aug 9, 2022

## Attendees

- _attendees list_

## Notetaker

- _notetaker_ ðŸ¥‡
- _backup notetaker_ ðŸ¥ˆ

Agenda

- Submit the final output of this working group as 2 PRs ðŸŽ‰ (Josh)
  - Discuss where to add `artifactType` to support the referrer API to have this field in the outputs.
      <https://github.com/oci-playground/image-spec/pull/9> @sajay
  - image-spec: [Create pull request](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/compare/main...oci-playground:image-spec:pr)
    - [PR opened](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/pull/934)
  - distribution-spec: [Create pull request](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/compare/main...oci-playground:distribution-spec:pr)
    - [PR opened](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/pull/335)

Notes
