## Date
April 12, 2022

## Attendees
- Lachlan Evenson
- Brandon Mitchell
- Nisha Kumar
- Josh Dolitsky
- Jason Hall
- Steve Lasker
- Ramkumar Chinchani
- Michael Brown
- Tianon

## Notetaker
- Nisha ðŸ¥‡
- _backup notetaker_ ðŸ¥ˆ

## Agenda
- [Proposal E](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/pull/38) (Brandon)
- _enter agenda before meeting_

## Notes

- Proposal E
    - Combine pieces of A, B, and D
    - Another mediaType
    - Add reference type to artifact manifest and image manifest
    - Define annotations for filtering artifacts
    - Add syntax for tag names
    - Idea is that this allows for an upgrade path - it should just work
    - New APIs allow for efficient querying, but old registries can still support it.
    - Maybe a new name for `org.containers.image*` but not necessary.
    - Reference type is any _manifest_ type.
    - Lachie: do we need to do anything special for the annotations i.e. are they required?
        - This can be optional. Reference and digest tag is required.
        - Artifact suppliers must put those in if they want to be seen. But other artifact suppliers may want to put their own annotations.
    - TODO: add `os.version` to `platform` annotations too
    - Jason: client doesn't need to pull up annotations - up to the registry
    - Blobs are optional, and can be unordererd or ordered depending on client
    - Registries may show the 404 error if the API doesn't exist
    - May be a case where artifact producers will create too many blobs, but it's up to the registries for pagination
    - Jason: we should only support querying by digest, not tag, and make clients resolve tag->digest as a separate operation
    - Lachie: how does the client understand if references are suppported by the registries
        - Brandon: registry should say 404 for the API.
        - Steve: manifest registries need to know what type of manifest
        - Brandon: it's still an issue for clients to choose whether to use an image manifest with the reference or use an artifact manifest
        - Steve: Downgrade path to older registries
            - A downgrade would be extra work, but would support round tripping of data between up/down registries (since we won't have artifact manifest)
    - Sajay : NOTE: Consider ACLs here querying for a ref-type should not require push permissions  
    - Sajay: do we want to address the upgrade/downgrade path
        - Brandon: you should only move to the new APIs if all dependencies have moved.
    - Pagination and sorting is supported
    - Generally filtering is done via annotations
    -  Nisha: is type same as mediaType?
        -  Brandon: keeping these short names, since the tag can only be so long
        -  Nisha: 
        -  Steve: client should be able to check the tag names before pushing
        -  Lachie: digest tags are probably the biggest problem - tag listing in the old registry will be painful enough to implement the new manifest type in their registries, then clients will not have to do this.
    -  Josh: primary differences for not using the API in proposal A
        -  Brandon:
            -  Clients filter on the digest tag, then check the manifest to see if they match
            -  Biggest difference is making the filtering based on annotation
            -  Josh: but why change the API names?
            -  Josh: will this list also include the new mediaTypes?
            -  Brandon: downloading the index isn't much different from downloading a list of manifests
    - Sajay: Regarding tagging scheme - Do we need consider hash collisions when moving content?
        - Brandon: The hash is of the artifact not the digest i.e. the manifest. This hash should not change when moving from registry to registry.
        - Sajay: Might be hard to get this correct - so may be a good idea to define how that hash is created.
    - Nisha: why change API names (joshs question)
        - Brandon: it just wasnt _oci extension
        - Brandon: field is "reference" vs. "refferer"
    - Lachie: next steps?
        - Brandon: we should just push it
        - Think about submitting proposal E

Proposal F preview:
    - Query parameters
    - Steve: Proposal B includes artifact type where we can query
    - Josh: is this not implementable? Or out of scope?
    - Steve: querying the whole registry for this information would be hugely valuable [Blog post: Common Registry Search ... APIs](https://stevelasker.blog/2019/08/25/oci-artifacts-and-a-view-of-the-future/)
    - Brandon: 1. query syntax can be easier 2. Knowing how auth works, doing this across repos is challenging.
    - Josh: this is probably that needs a new working group.
    - Steve: it's assumed if you are pulling from multiple repos you have access to all the repos.
    - Next steps: Josh to submit an issue for this proposal
