# Date

July 12, 2022

## Attendees

- Brandon Mitchel
- Ankit Agarwal
- Marina Moore
- Jason Hall
- Michael Brown (AWS)
- Tianon Gravi
- Josh Dolitsky
- Brandon Mitchell
- Jesse Butler
- Ramkumar Chinchani (Cisco)
- _attendees list_

## Notetaker

- _notetaker_ ðŸ¥‡
- _backup notetaker_ ðŸ¥ˆ

Agenda

- [Clarifications to E](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/pull/60) (Brandon)
- [Consider making a dedicated artifactType field](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/pull/59) (Brandon)
- [Consider a single digest tag](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/pull/61) (Brandon)
- [How do we propose these changes land across OCI repos?
](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/issues/62#issuecomment-1178911565) (Josh)
  - we can start to stage some of this in oci-playground
    - <https://github.com/oci-playground/distribution-spec>
    - <https://github.com/oci-playground/image-spec>
- _enter agenda before meeting_

Notes
