## Date
April 26, 2022

## Attendees
- Sajay Antony
- Brandon Mitchell
- Steve Lasker
- Josh Dolitsky
- Tianon
- _attendees list_

## Notetaker
- Sajay Antony ðŸ¥‡
- Brandon Mitchell ðŸ¥ˆ

Agenda
- Proposal E Updates (Steve)
- _enter agenda before meeting_

Notes
- How can we update the proposal E ? - Steve 
    - Raise issue or send a PR over the merged PR - Brandon
- Want to ensure that registry operators concerns are made.
- E doesn't seem too far and should we discuss if E the one we should take forward. 
- Should this be community or TOB? - Nisha
    - Consider taking this the respective maintainers - Michael 
    - Some changes require consideration across boundaries and getting everyone on the same page is hard - Jason
        - Need some quorum of distribution and image-spec folks - Jason
    - Might need the TOB to get artifact-spec repo - Brandon
    - Distribution spec should already have an idea that this group is working on this. - Josh 
    - Should we drop pagination/filtering for first round - Josh
    - Consider moving with existing registry support and then move forward with distribution changes - Brandon
    - Incremental is great, bug suggest we should avoid "Frankensteining" the specs, making sure that the incremental steps accrue to a solution that makes sense in the end - Steve 
    - Can we propose something useful but might be cumbersome - Nisha
        - Some of the work is influencing the wider community but takes time, tern pinning took 5 years - Nisha 
        - Cut a release and make progress - Jason
        - We can pipeline multiple changes without waiting for a release
        - Where the properties exist is not the biggest challenge - Steve 
        - Should we make progress with implementaiton - ZOT - Josh
        - What is the customer expectation when the registry gets an unknown fields. 
        - It is a big effort, but we do have implementations and progress with ORAS Artifacts that we've learned what works and what need more info. Suggest additional reference implementations, building on the [referrers work in distribution](https://github.com/oras-project/distribution/tree/feature_oras_referrers). This is [an output of the WG Ref Type Charter](https://github.com/opencontainers/tob/issues/96) - Steve
- Concerns with E:
    - Versioning
        - Bumping versions breaks existing clients and registries
        - Leaving existing version with new field to process requires registries reprocess existing manifests
    - Bridge between states?
    - Details of changes to distribution spec if any - Nisha
    - Can we shape the specification in such a way that we send clients down the recommended path of using the new manifest and new API and point them to the backwards compat story if the above API is not supported. - Sajay
    - Didn't get time to discuss the extension api specification - this was brought up in the last OCI call with Mike Brown and recommeded as a way to incubate the new reference API as well. 
        - Is extension API needed for new API's defined by OCI? Is this best left as a space for registry operators to extend the registry without accidentally conflicting with new API's that OCI or other registry operators may add? (Brandon)
- Proposal C 
    - Leaning heavily on extensibility of image-spec
- Handling unknown properties
- Using extensibility API
- Consider reversing priority of image-spec vs artifact-spec in proposal E
