## Date
April 5, 2022

## Attendees
- Lachlan Evenson
- Brandon Mitchell
- Josh Dolitsky
- Jason Hall
- Ramkumar Chinchani
- Sajay Antony
- Steve Lasker
- Marina Moore

## Notetaker
- Jason 🥇
- Brandon Mitchell 🥈

Agenda
- Review [Proposal A](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/blob/main/docs/proposals/PROPOSAL_A.md) (Sajay)
- Suggestion for Proposal E (Brandon)

Notes
- Updates for Proposal A
    - not evolving the Image spec, starting fresh with a new Artifact manifest
    - `blobs` are not required to be ordered/layered. It's up to each artifactType to specify
    - `subject` points to another entry (could be `"reference"`)
    - Reference tends to reflect the downward reference - manifest --> blobs. `subject` is an upward reference. `subject` is also a generalized term for a pointer in signatures and claims
    - one `subject` or N `subjects`?
        - e.g., one signatue signing multiple images
        - start with one
        - subjects pointing to blobs may allow for looping
        - `subject` points to a single manifest assuring lifecycle managment is possible
    - `blobs` was going to be ``"descriptors"` ([PR#75](https://github.com/oras-project/artifacts-spec/pull/75), but was reverted) -- disallowed to prevent loops
    - `artifactType` in the descriptor --> moving to an annotation?
        - may make it easier to index for filtering at query-time
    - `_oci/artifacts/referrers` matches [OCI extensions spec](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/blob/main/extensions/README.md)
    - Can we move the artifactType to annotations? (Brandon)
    - Nisha: can blobs be interpreted as ordinal?
        - order can't change, or else digest would change
        - could be interpreted as ordered if you want to
    - Nisha: can artifact manifests point to other artifact manifests?
        - Yes. `subject` can point to any manifest type (index, docker, oci, artifact)
        - Loops are prevented because `subject` can only point to manifests, not blobs
        - `blobs` descriptors are only blobs (never manifests)
    - Nisha: this looks like a v3 change, major version bump
        - `/v2/` is part of the OCI extensions spec
        - `/v2/` already works, supports auth, etc.
        - `/v3/` makes registry hosting more difficult
    - Nisha: why do descriptors also include `artifactType`?
        - to avoid round tripping when querying? (yes)
        - lifting all annotations has concerns, could result in larger size, may make sense to use data field to inject full manifest in reply, bloating the response, and possibly sending exploitable `data` in a reference
    - Nisha: having params in the API might not be a good idea?
        - e.g., `.../sha256:.../referrers`
        - OCI extensions spec recommends query params
    - Jason: "subject MUST exist" in some scenarios
        - We should document the use case. (Sajay)
        - open to relaxing that requirement to support offline signing
        - artifact without a subject existing could be removed by GC, a tag could help with this
        - race condition of pushing image and then pushing signature could be an issue for some users that require only signed images
    - Steve: you can push a manifest as a digest, push the signature, than push a tag update assuring the new tag reference is signed
    - Josh: can container images refer to things?
        - or only "artifacts" like this (Sajay: no)
        - be able to tell what images a Helm chart refers to
        - Sajay: solving a specific problem; the goal is not to change the image spec
        - a Helm chart can refer to N images, you could query for images' `/referrers` to find the Helm chart.
        - an artifact can't point across repos, the images would have to be in the same repo, which is not relevant to helm charts
    - Josh: artifactType should be registered with IANA, should that be a fully qualified media type?
        - Yes, registration prevents multiple implementations fighting over a string
        - Other proposals allow this to be more free form string
    - Brandon: `created` annotation?
        - is this because we don't have `config` field anymore?
        - Recommend looking for other needed annotations from the config object and make one PR for all of them.
    - Nisha: could we put subsequent scans in additional (ordered) blobs?
        - Steve: each scan is a new artifact, assuring each can be promoted individually, or a filtered subset (eg: first and last scan), avoiding any contention for updated manifests
- Proposal E suggestion
    - combination of AB+D
    - new media type, add referrers field, add /referrers API to query, and support digest tags
    - useful to users today, with addl' benefits later when registries support the new media type + APIs
    - Users start with an existing OCI artifact today (image with appropriate config media type), include a reference field
    - Query using digest tags on existing registries and later upgrade to the API against that field
    - Once all registries are upgraded, they can switch over to the new media type to drop the config blob
    - Brandon will write it up and review at a future meeting
