## Date
March 8th 2022

## Attendees
- Josh Dolitsky
- Brandon Mitchell
- Nisha
- Marina Moore
- Tianon
- Jason Hall
- Samuel Karp
- Lachlan Evenson
- Ramkumar Chinchani (Cisco)
- Michael Brown
- Steve Lasker
- Sajay Antony
- _attendees list_

## Notetaker
- Nisha 🥇
- _backup notetaker_ 🥈

## Agenda
- Examine [Proposal D](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/blob/main/docs/proposals/PROPOSAL_D.md) (Josh)
    - [Rubric](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/blob/main/docs/RUBRIC.md), based on user stories

## Notes
- Brandon shows proposal D
    - We can attach other manifests to the index manifest
    - Use annotations to add extra descriptions `vnd.oci.artifact.type` to get the artifact types.
    - Clients pick the first manifest. Assume the first manifest is an image.
    - Smaller artifacts can just be embedded in an annotation as base64 encoded value.
    - APIs are unchanged. It doesn't work as good with index unless you reference the index by digest.
    - To query the annotation you can use ``<digest_type>:<digest>.<type>``
    - Another way to query is to use `<digest_type>:<digest>.<hash>.<type>`
- Questions
    - ETAGS - when two people push different digests to the same tag, this should solve it.
    - Jason: how do we sign an index?
        - Probably going to be some runtimes that don't like this
    - Nisha: Do we need to reserve some of these annotations for consistency across clients?
    - Josh: "\<reference\> as a tag MUST be at most 128 characters in length" - how does this affect the usage of \<hash\>?
        - This is a "short hash" in accordance to spec.
    - Josh: does this index then grow indefinitely?
        - We have a 4MB limit on the index size. So how can we link?
        - If someone wants to push multiple artifacts then push all the artifacts by tags and we can sign the digest. The client has to verify that the hash in the tag matches the hash of the manifest.
    - Josh: as far as querying, can this only be done client side? (since no registry changes)
        - Yes, we can't do filtering on the server side.
        - 
    - Sajay: what about reserving an annotation for linking to another manifest?
       - Maybe we should repurpose the true annotation to be that pointer (Brandon)
    - Garbage collection - can be implemented on the client side is not ideal but better than nothing.
    - Generally, this is a recommended way of addressing all the user stories with the existing OCI spec.
    - Steve: if the originator of an image and an SBOM, if the image gets promoted, the annotation will have information about the SBOM that may still exist in the original registry.
    - Gist: one could provide all these use cases but the client will do all the work.

### Proposal Evaluation Rubric

See [user stories](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/blob/main/docs/REQUIREMENTS.md#user-stories)

✅
❌


Key:
- F: Filtering
- B: Backwards Compatibility
- C: Content Management

|User Stories|Proposal D|
|--- |--- |
|**F.1**|Yes - query based on tags |
|**F.2**|Yes but not efficient at scale |
|**F.3**|Yes - by type string |
|**F.4**|Yes - inefficient |
|**F.5**|Yes but not efficient and dependent on artifact type |
