## Date
May 3, 2022

## Attendees
- Jason Hall
- Lachlan Evenson
- Nisha
- Tianon
- Patrick Flynn
- Josh Dolitsky
- Michael Brown
- Marina Moore
- Dan Lorenc
- Sajay Antony
- _attendees list_

## Notetaker
- Nisha ðŸ¥‡
- _backup notetaker_ ðŸ¥ˆ

Agenda
- Discuss [proposal E](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/blob/main/docs/proposals/PROPOSAL_E.md)
  - modifying existing image spec. [Sajay]
  - new manifest updates [Lachie]
  - wrap and next steps to OCI TOB [Lachie]
- Partial demo of proposal E w/ crane and zot [Josh]
    - See https://github.com/oci-playground
-  _enter agenda before meeting_

Notes
- Proposal E
    - Continuation of last week's convo: what is the expectation of modifying the existing spec to add a reference field.
    - There is some work on the operator's side: image spec does not say that new mediaTypes need to be parsed.
    - Jason: reg: what should the registry operators do. A registry should ignore it. Registry operators should signal that anything pushed before x date will not be indexed, you will have to repush it.
    - Jason: spec says "ignore field" but doesn't say what it should do if that field becomes meaningful (similar to data field discussion). Suggest adding to the spec to watch out for changes to the fields even though it can be ignored for now. This class of problem is probably common to all the specs.
    - Sajay: if reference field may or may not be honored. Should we just go with the new manifest and let registry operators deal with the change - communicate to registry operators and prepare for changes?
    - Jason: This is hard to motivate rather than implement.
    - Sajay: afraid to touch the image spec because it may break something that will cause backlash.
    - Jason: yes, definitely must have something that supports this
    - Jason: will take the action to bring up these two concerns to image spec maintainers, if there is group consensus.
    - Michael: legitimate concerns about accepting input you don't understand with regards to security. Confuse a manifest list for a manifest. When accepting data with references that mean things, then there should be some response from the registry.
    - Jason: the spec is general about what it supports.
    - Jason will take the action to clarify verbiage about specific and general concerns.
- Proposal E vs Proposal A
    - Why not take the manifest from [Proposal A](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/blob/main/docs/proposals/PROPOSAL_A.md)?
    - ArtifactType, Subject, Referrers
    - Jason: personally doesn't have a preference to names. Would it make sense to add to E why the names changed? May also be cognizant of the image spec maintainers' feelings about the words.
    - (Late follow up from Brandon): Names weren't changed from Proposal A, they were just taken from Proposal B, this was a cherry pick from multiple proposals
    - Lachie: looks like proposal E is not as strong as the other proposals. Eg: Proposal A has examples and well thought out explanations about filtering. Maybe the action item is adding the example from proposal A.
    - Sajay: Agree, but Mike Brown did say to use the extensions API. No strong opinion about names. Gets complicated with filtering. Probably need some clarity with that. The filtering with extensions would help to land the filtering without touching the manifest endpoints.
    - Michael: agree dealing with the filtering part in increments.
    - Josh: Proposal E has strengths but the filtering is getting in the way. Maybe focus on the upgrade path and break the proposals 
    - Nisha: seems to be consensus that Proposal E is good, but should be broken down into sub-proposals and staged (not Lachie's interpretation)
    - Lachie's interpretation: strip back Prop E to minimal viable proposal, for TOB to understand, strip out filtering, better examples, (Josh: describe upgrade path, Sajay: use extensions a la Prop A?)
        - E-prime: how do we coalesce toward the concrete proposal
    - Josh: unless we're creating a new spec, we can bypass TOB
        - we might be creating a new spec
        - Lachie: we could drop distribution-spec changes if we do an extension :thinking_face: 
    - Nisha: Prop E is good, we have to figure out what to propose first; start with E's new artifact, then filtering and image-spec backcompat changes
    - 1. Drop filtering 2. Registry endpoints out to extensions 3. Submit artifact manifest and image reference field upgrade path. Need explanation for all the proposals.
    - Michael: adding an endpoint is important though
- Demo
    - Josh to follow up on questions that came up while implementing the demo. Eg the links annotiation which is a comma separated list.
