## Date

March 29, 2022

## Attendees

- Brandon Mitchell
- Jason Hall
- Marina Moore
- Tianon
- Steve Lasker
- Nisha Kumar
- Sajay Antony
- Ramkumar Chinchani
- Josh Dolitsky

## Notetaker

- Brandon Mitchell 🥇
- Nisha Kumar 🥈

Agenda

- ~~Review [Proposal A](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/blob/main/docs/proposals/PROPOSAL_A.md) (Sajay) - Can we punt this as Lachie is out (He will ask in Slack)~~ - Punted to April 5 as per <https://opencontainers.slack.com/archives/C02QSE9M5E1/p1648077041906289>
- Proposal C Rubric is up for review: <https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/pull/31>
- Sort out how we will update rubrics per proposal (Brandon)

Notes

- Sort out how proposals solves requirements
  - Consensus: Add "how" to the bottom of the proposal
- Steve: What about client-server sharing?
  - Good to clarify whether the client or the server does the work
  - Jason: yes, worth calling out how much work is required to do the filtering, etc.
  - Brandon: for scan results or attestations, there would be hundreds of these.
  - Jason: don't think any of the proposals dictate how the round tripping happens.
  - Ideally, registry servers should perform filtering to minimize rate-limit issues faced by some registries.
  - Steve: rate limiting is a soltuion to too many requests being made. Any new APIs should be designed around minmimizing the round trips, to avoid the need to implement throttles. A good design will minimize requests. Then, if developers abuse the APIs, throttles enforce good consumer designs
- Reviewing Rubric for C
  - C could have been an OCI Index, but used another media type to avoid breaking existing runtimes.
  - List of descriptors may be manifests, could also be blobs, and that risks issues seen with buildx
  - Extending manifests could be a chain, but introduces performance problems and GC issues
  - Potential issues with chaining indexes, including race conditions, and registry needing to validate depth of chain
  - Filtering was done based on the description field, and the description content is currently undefined
