# Date

May 31, 2022

**Recording**: <https://youtu.be/jfLkC67K4Kk>

## Attendees

- Brandon Mitchell
- Josh Dolitsky
- Silvin Lubecki
- Chris Crone
- Tianon
- Tonis Tiigi
- Sajay Antony
- Patrick Flynn
- Nisha Kumar
- Jason Hall
- _attendees list_

## Notetaker

- Brandon ðŸ¥‡
- Nisha ðŸ¥ˆ

Agenda

- Chris: Proposal F

Notes

- Proposal F:
  - Chris: Docker will write up a Proposal F based on the discussion [here](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/issues/50)
  - How to make mutating an index atomic
    - <https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec/pull/251>
  - ETag concern from before was S3 backend was eventually consistent
  - This is no longer a concern with the AWS implementation of S3
    - <https://aws.amazon.com/s3/consistency/>
  - Josh: size of attached artifacts
    - Manifest are size limited
    - Artifact can be pushed as a blob
    - Manifest should be small, think that signing falls in this bucket
    - Manifest can also grow when there are lots of small things (many attestations attached to an image)
    - We can't necessarily control how people will add new ref types to an image, may not just be a signature and sbom
    - Some new types may group lots of content into a single manifest instead of lots of ref types to an image
  - Sajay: what does this group do if we propose no change to image/distribution specs
    - OCI artifact definition is already a "no change" description
    - We can still standardize how this is done without proposing new types or API endpoints
  - Sajay: we will have limits on the number of objects that can be attached based on the size of manifests
  - Nisha: concerns with F including missing filtering support, creating tags, difficult to track history
  - Jason: don't treat signatures as special, but all small things should have a different option to inline
  - Chris: don't specify each use case, let tool builders define how they use the OCI specs
    - Brandon: interoperability concerns, want to be sure tooling can be designed to copy any ref type between registries
  - Nisha: creating micro-SBOMs and linking them together, how would this be done with F
    - The linked structure would create a tree
    - Tree should be represented by an OCI index (with the option of nesting indexes)
    - Concern with frequently changing content where existing data remains and gets extended with new information
    - Brandon: GitBom may handle tree design in a way that fits into annotation syntax
  - Josh: how to pick between E or F?
    - Concerned that registries won't update quick, resulting in bad UX for proposal E
  - Josh: do we need to see some new proposal G based on Justin's bigger goals
    - Need to find a solution that handles our immediate goals
    - Can also look towards bigger goals later
    - Brandon: A concern from Justin was E resulted in a data model that didn't fit his longer term vision
    - Nisha: we don't have a place to iterate on bigger visions for OCI
  - Working group shouldn't expand too far out of WG goals, leave that to main OCI group and TOB
  - Jason: Various ways to innovate
    1. Can do something in a vacuum and later propose to OCI
    2. Work within constraints of OCI (like cosign)
    3. Dictating from above often fails (or won't get approved by OCI)
