# Date

June 28, 2022

## Attendees

- Lachlan Evenson
- Tianon
- Nisha Kumar
- Alexander Mazuruk
- Sajay Antony
- Michael Brown
- Jesse Butler
- Brandon Mitchell

## Notetaker

- Nisha ðŸ¥‡
- Lachlan Evenson ðŸ¥ˆ

Agenda

- Next steps for deciding on a proposal (Brandon)

Notes

- Looks like we've settled on prop E and F. (Brandon)
- Are we looking at a cherry pick of a cherry pick (Nisha)
  - I think they represent two different paths they can go down (Josh)
  - Should we call a vote with how to proceed?
- From Jon: We need to query the new fields and references via an API
- Jesse: Must drive quorum here - "consensus doesn't mean unanimous" use Roberts rules(?)
- Brandon: will file an issue to collect poll results and we will leave it up for a week.
  - [Issue 56](https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/issues/56) has been opened
- Jason: propose that once we vote we present a united front.
- Brandon: maybe we should go over E to flush out any issues
- Any time you have to run the tag list instead of give me the tag - that's a downside to prop e - Brandon
- Can we be clear about the upgrade path is for prop e? - Nisha
  - I would divide the prop into all the new additions then the fallback method (Nisha)
- Do we convert Proposal E into a spec or how are we going to communicate this?
  - Josh: would like the entirety of Proposal E be agreed upon
  - Michael: concerned about load bearing annotations. We should make them into fields.
  - Brandon: what about signing keys?
  - General concern: do we want to support server side filtering or do we want to embed annotations to do client side filtering?
- Quorum vote administrivia
- Context on upgrade path from Brandon - Nisha will submit PR for formatting
- Added questions to <https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/issues/42> for follow up
