# Date

May 10, 2022

**Recording**: <https://youtu.be/Vs5HVCo4Tv0>

## Attendees

- Josh Dolitsky
- Jason Hall
- Sajay Antony
- Lachie Evenson
- Michael Brown
- Jesse Butler
- Brandon Mitchell (joined late)
- Ramkumar Chinchani
- _attendees list_

## Notetaker

- Jason Hall ðŸ¥‡
- _backup notetaker_ ðŸ¥ˆ

Agenda

- <https://github.com/opencontainers/wg-reference-types/pull/44>
  - prototyping in OCI extension, upgrade it to a "real" path later
  - OCI extension discovery is an OCI extension
  - let's only make the API move once
  - (Nisha) How do we demonstrate the popularity of an extension?
  - PoC as an extension to distribution at <https://github.com/oci-playground/distribution/pull/1>
- Get input on the following - @sajay
  - Discuss if we need artifactType in the new manifest and how does this impact the image spec changes since the updates decided to drop filtering all together?
    - Basically is there a middle ground for minimum viable experience?  
    - Is this acknowledging that other filters will never happen, or will there be two tiers/paths for filters? (Brandon)
  - Get concensus on if we should return referrers or leave it upto cloud providers to decide the impact of introducing `refer` field into the image-spec? Inputs from Jon might be really valuable here. Or maybe bring it upto the OCI call.  
  - Is there a need for implementers to vouch for spec changes? (Nisha)
- _enter agenda before meeting_
- Follow up: should ArtifactType be a field or an annotation?

Notes
